# Who this book is for

## But we're not doing Waterfall!
A lot of writing about agile software development is presented in opposition to something called 'Waterfall', which is 
a traditional methodology for developing software, based on a [paper by Winston W. Royce][waterfall]. One example of the difference between these two ways of working is that in Waterfall, large sets of modifications are broken down into separate tasks by dividing the different stages of development - investigation, specification, writing code, testing and deployment, etc. These different tasks are carried out at different times and by different groups of people. Agile practises try to divide up changes into the smallest possible changes that are coherent, but then keeps all the different work done on that change together - with one person or a very close-knit team doing everything from initial investigation to finalizing how the change is rolled out.

IJ
I think lots of people who are developing software and who are interested in ideas around 'Agile'[*][agile] do not recognize themselves in the descriptions of 'Waterfall'. This means that they don't recognize the value of agile techniques, because they get the idea that these are based on rejecting something that they're not actually doing. In fact, a lot of people who could benefit from learning about agile techniques, are not following any consistent or explicit development methodology. This might be because their work is simply chaotic. However, it's more commonly because they are using ad-hoc working ways that they have found themselves using trial and error. These often incorporate some ideas from agile software development, but not others. For these people, advocating 'Agile' over 'Waterfall' has two problems. It implies that the problems with their current process are caused by using a rigid set of ideas from a long time ago, and it puts forward the wrong set of justifications for adopting agile practices. If you are doing something which you worked out yourself in response to the demands and problems you face everyday, being asked to follow a set of principles outlined by experts in books, talks and a manifesto is automatically going to arouse your suspicions. If this is done by suggesting that your working is based on outdated dogma, and by offering you an escape from difficulties you don't even suffer from, it's very unlikely to succeed.

A description of what your working practices might be like if this is the book for you.

[waterfall] This paper, Royce, Winston (1970), "Managing the Development of Large Software Systems" (PDF), Proceedings of IEEE WESCON 26 (August): 1–9, actually presents what it calls 'Waterfall' as an example of an overly rigid development process. The paper tries to suggests ways of improving the process, by including shorter feedback cycles around different steps of the process. It contains some ideas which seem related to agile practices. It's not clear why a methodoloy which was criticized in 1970 for not being agile enough is still used as the example with which modern agile techniques are contrasted, except, possibly, that it was adopted by many large organizations developing software in the intervening years.
[agile] Say something about the talk which points out that 'doing Agile' seems like a completely thing to 'following principles of agile software development'. The 'Agile manifesto' is a phrase to be avoided.
